it's gotta be epic it's gotta be a grand
scale this is a hugely ambitious project
the design department is extraordinary I
mean just extraordinary the scale and
the level of detail is so incredible
it's like being in a brilliant
psyckadeli disco
sometimes and I kind of frozen north
[Music]
biggest problem with this story is how
crazy and fantastical and amazing and
kind of vast it is you have to curate
everything so it's not as easy as just
propping it with standard stuff you know
each area in each space has being quite
carefully curated to tell the story
pretty much every chapter in the book is
a different world it keeps traveling
Lyra goes through so many different
forms of existence and worlds so it's a
huge job for the design it just shows
the amount of respect I think that
people have for the project that the
producers have gathered together it's
incredibly talented group of creatives
you get the chance to have real-life
grown-up playgrounds to inhabit and
populate the world of make-believe and
that just adds such joy as real the lab
has so many little things that you're so
detailed it's like they have every
single switch it actually really helps
acting us we've had such vast complex
builds on this show from Oxford elements
where we did vaulted ceilings and
everyone's looking in the brushes and
games looks looks real Wow you know
missus called his apartment in London
he's terrifying cuz it's in her likeness
mrs. Coulter's likeness and had gone
monkey but I don't think you would know
it until you spend a few days there and
then you're like her
it's kinda creepy we built an entire
town on the Brecon Beacons it was an
amazing feat it was literally a whole
town with interiors exteriors a dock and
it was for one episode and I think it's
very exciting Hollis and in particular
has been my favorites because you really
are transported to a small gritty
hard-bitten dangerous outpost somewhere
far far away in the north and they've
got half a dead whale and the blubber
machine and all it just all so real and
visceral just blows my mind
just the scale and the level of detail
is so incredible it's exactly what you
want when you're fulfilling a fantasy
world that so many people have imagined
in their own minds
I was looking a window and there was
like lenses or something but it had a
label about how much these were now that
was never ever going to be featured but
someone had taken the time to do all
that you think it doesn't matter you
think well look is gonna see that but
actually it does matter
[Music]
I loved the Eliseo meter is brilliant
it's really heavy I actually had like
this shoulder bug from mrs. coats's
episode it kept on breaking because of
the weight of it but it's amazing it has
literally all of the drawings you can
like move the needles this is another
bit of a design journey because of what
it means to the audience what it means
to the book and with the Alethea meter
there wasn't really a conscious decision
to make it not round because it is kind
of round as it were but there was a kind
of feeling I had that I didn't really
want it to look like a Victorian pocket
watch ironically actually I was trying
to find something that probably was not
inside the mind of the fans ie round for
a start because I wanted to explore the
shapes and feelings and sizes
it wasn't to be controversial it was
actually just trying to not push the
audience away because they go our
nitrous in the Victorian pocket watch
you know just I wanted it to like look
special I break everything but I did not
break the only theama Turks that props
is like if you break the Alethea meter
that is very expensive what are the
singles me I absolutely love the set of
my boats so everybody walks onto that
set and really wishes they could live
there on every shelf and every covers
every cushion I cannot tell you just the
extraordinary microscopic attention to
detail I will give you that I've just
been doing a lot of scenes in the frozen
wastes of the north and then you walk on
set and it's actually pretty stunning
and the light is incredible you are let
by our northern lights a lot the time
switch like being in a brilliant
psychedelic disco sometimes and I kind
of frozen north sort of early I love the
airships they were really fun and that
we've had three different kinds of
airships over here one that was like a
tube you know
one that's like a sort of private jet
and one was a military one I mean
they're amazing I could spend all day in
these the environments on this show are
playgrounds really there are all
different stretch and pull on every
muscle you have creatively I think I
look at it from a kind of light how
exciting is that perspective rather than
how terrifying is that it's just such a
fun challenge that I defy anyone I don't
think it would be utterly brilliant
thing to do you know like why wouldn't
it be
it's one of the biggest challenges I
think because you can get it wrong you
could so easily get it wrong and I'm
desperately desperately trying not to
[Music]